README.md, before:

# rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters”

A work-in-progress Rust implementation of Robert Nystrom's Lox language, as presented in [*Crafting Interpreters*](https://craftinginterpreters.com/contents.html).

For each completed stage, I document my progress in a post, which is listed in the [Related post(s)](#related-posts) section below.

## 📘 RLox Language Guide

A working guide to the Lox language features currently implemented in this project.  
→ [View RLoxGuide.md](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/docs/RLoxGuide.md)

## To Run

Clone the repository to your local machine:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

Change to the ``rlox`` directory. <!-- The application can be run interactively or with a Lox script file. -->

💥 The application's behavior will evolve as development progresses. As a result, the discussions below will be updated accordingly.

<!--
At this stage, the parser can only parse expressions. Please refer to the `RLox Language Guide`'s [Expressions and Operators](./docs/RLoxGuide.md#expressions-and-operators) for valid expressions.

### To Run Interactively

```
$ cargo run --release
```

Enter something such as `("abc" * (4.5 / 2));`, and press `Enter` — you will see the parser and the evaluation (interpreter) results printed out.

Currently, inputs are treated independently, meaning each new input has no relation to the previous one.

To exit, simply press ``Enter`` without entering anything.

### To Run with a Lox Script File
-->

```
$ cargo run --release ./tests/data/for/book_end_section.lox
```

If there are no errors, you will see the <!-- parser and the evaluation (interpreter) --> results printed out.

## Related post(s)

1. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Scanner](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/06/14/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-scanner/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.1.0**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.1.0 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

I am attempting a Rust implementation of Robert Nystrom's Lox language discussed in <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/" title="Crafting Interpreters" target="_blank">Crafting Interpreters</a>. This post describes my Rust code equivalence for the <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/scanning.html" title="Scanning" target="_blank">Scanning</a> chapter.

2. [Visitor Pattern with Rust](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/06/28/visitor-pattern-with-rust/)

<a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/" title="Crafting Interpreters" target="_blank">Crafting Interpreters</a> makes use of the <a href="https://www.google.com/search?q=visitor+pattern&sca_esv=031453346484e3fe&sxsrf=AE3TifMt1Zv09mlol6xvyuLSIe-SuQ8RVw%3A1750945325549&source=hp&ei=LU5daNi5GZjc2roPj7nA-Q0&iflsig=AOw8s4IAAAAAaF1cParYGjGJNLFkiCZUR2Fzc8uzg2FT&ved=0ahUKEwiYhJLRm4-OAxUYrlYBHY8cMN8Q4dUDCBk&uact=5&oq=visitor+pattern&gs_lp=Egdnd3Mtd2l6GgIYAyIPdmlzaXRvciBwYXR0ZXJuMgoQIxiABBgnGIoFMgUQABiABDIFEAAYgAQyBRAAGIAEMgUQABiABDIIEAAYgAQYiwMyCBAAGIAEGIsDMgUQABiABDIIEAAYgAQYiwMyCBAAGIAEGIsDSIkpUABY7iZwAngAkAEAmAGuAqABkRuqAQcwLjkuNy4xuAEDyAEA-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&sclient=gws-wiz" title="Google search: visitor pattern" target="_blank">visitor pattern</a>, which I’m not yet familiar with. To better understand it, I’ve attempted to implement the C# and Java examples from the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visitor_pattern" title="Wikipedia: Visitor pattern" target="_blank">Wikipedia Visitor pattern</a> article in Rust. Short, isolated examples like these help us grasp the underlying theory more effectively.

We won’t be discussing the theory of the visitor pattern in this post.

3. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) – Representing Code](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/07/10/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-abstract-syntax-tree-ast-representing-code/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.1.1**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.1.1 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

The primary focus of this post is Chapter 5: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/representing-code.html" title="Representing Code" target="_blank">Representing Code</a>, in which the author introduces an independent tool to generate ASTs for both expressions and statements, followed by a printer for displaying the AST. This post briefly discusses my Rust implementation of both tools.

4. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Parsing and Evaluating Expressions](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/07/13/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-parsing-and-evaluating-expressions/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.2.0**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.2.0 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

In this post, I briefly describe the implementation of the code in Chapter 6: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/parsing-expressions.html" title="Parsing Expressions" target="_blank">Parsing Expressions</a>, and Chapter 7: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/evaluating-expressions.html" title="Evaluating Expressions" target="_blank">Evaluating Expressions</a>.

5. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Global Variables, Assignment, and Scope](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/07/22/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-global-variables-assignment-and-scope/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.3.0**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.3.0 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

I have completed Chapter 8: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/statements-and-state.html" title="Statements and State" target="_blank">Statements and State</a>. The following additional statements and expressions have been implemented: <code>Stmt::Expression</code>, <code>Stmt::Print</code>, <code>Stmt::Var</code>, <code>Expr::Variable</code>, <code>Expr::Assign</code> and <code>Stmt::Block</code>. We can now declare global variables, define scoped variables, and assign values to variables. This post discusses some implementation issues that deserve attention.

6. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Control Flow](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/07/25/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-control-flow/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.4.0**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.4.0 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

This is Chapter 8: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/control-flow.html" title="Control Flow" target="_blank">Control Flow</a>. The following additional statements and expressions have been implemented: <code>Stmt::If</code>, <code>Expr::Logical</code>, and <code>Stmt::While</code>. Lox now supports <code>if</code>, <code>else</code>, <code>and</code>, <code>or</code>, <code>while</code>, and <code>for</code>. Despite this long list of new features, the implementation remains fairly straightforward.

## License
[MIT license](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)
and the [Creative Commons](  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

Commit message:

Added post [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Functions]

README.md, after:

# rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters”

A work-in-progress Rust implementation of Robert Nystrom's Lox language, as presented in [*Crafting Interpreters*](https://craftinginterpreters.com/contents.html).

For each completed stage, I document my progress in a post, which is listed in the [Related post(s)](#related-posts) section below.

## 📘 RLox Language Guide

A working guide to the Lox language features currently implemented in this project.  
→ [View RLoxGuide.md](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/docs/RLoxGuide.md)

## To Run

Clone the repository to your local machine:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

Change to the ``rlox`` directory. <!-- The application can be run interactively or with a Lox script file. -->

💥 The application's behavior will evolve as development progresses. As a result, the discussions below will be updated accordingly.

<!--
At this stage, the parser can only parse expressions. Please refer to the `RLox Language Guide`'s [Expressions and Operators](./docs/RLoxGuide.md#expressions-and-operators) for valid expressions.

### To Run Interactively

```
$ cargo run --release
```

Enter something such as `("abc" * (4.5 / 2));`, and press `Enter` — you will see the parser and the evaluation (interpreter) results printed out.

Currently, inputs are treated independently, meaning each new input has no relation to the previous one.

To exit, simply press ``Enter`` without entering anything.

### To Run with a Lox Script File
-->

```
$ cargo run --release ./tests/data/for/book_end_section.lox
```

If there are no errors, you will see the <!-- parser and the evaluation (interpreter) --> results printed out.

## Related post(s)

1. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Scanner](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/06/14/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-scanner/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.1.0**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.1.0 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

I am attempting a Rust implementation of Robert Nystrom's Lox language discussed in <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/" title="Crafting Interpreters" target="_blank">Crafting Interpreters</a>. This post describes my Rust code equivalence for the <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/scanning.html" title="Scanning" target="_blank">Scanning</a> chapter.

2. [Visitor Pattern with Rust](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/06/28/visitor-pattern-with-rust/)

<a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/" title="Crafting Interpreters" target="_blank">Crafting Interpreters</a> makes use of the <a href="https://www.google.com/search?q=visitor+pattern&sca_esv=031453346484e3fe&sxsrf=AE3TifMt1Zv09mlol6xvyuLSIe-SuQ8RVw%3A1750945325549&source=hp&ei=LU5daNi5GZjc2roPj7nA-Q0&iflsig=AOw8s4IAAAAAaF1cParYGjGJNLFkiCZUR2Fzc8uzg2FT&ved=0ahUKEwiYhJLRm4-OAxUYrlYBHY8cMN8Q4dUDCBk&uact=5&oq=visitor+pattern&gs_lp=Egdnd3Mtd2l6GgIYAyIPdmlzaXRvciBwYXR0ZXJuMgoQIxiABBgnGIoFMgUQABiABDIFEAAYgAQyBRAAGIAEMgUQABiABDIIEAAYgAQYiwMyCBAAGIAEGIsDMgUQABiABDIIEAAYgAQYiwMyCBAAGIAEGIsDSIkpUABY7iZwAngAkAEAmAGuAqABkRuqAQcwLjkuNy4xuAEDyAEA-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&sclient=gws-wiz" title="Google search: visitor pattern" target="_blank">visitor pattern</a>, which I’m not yet familiar with. To better understand it, I’ve attempted to implement the C# and Java examples from the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visitor_pattern" title="Wikipedia: Visitor pattern" target="_blank">Wikipedia Visitor pattern</a> article in Rust. Short, isolated examples like these help us grasp the underlying theory more effectively.

We won’t be discussing the theory of the visitor pattern in this post.

3. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) – Representing Code](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/07/10/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-abstract-syntax-tree-ast-representing-code/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.1.1**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.1.1 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

The primary focus of this post is Chapter 5: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/representing-code.html" title="Representing Code" target="_blank">Representing Code</a>, in which the author introduces an independent tool to generate ASTs for both expressions and statements, followed by a printer for displaying the AST. This post briefly discusses my Rust implementation of both tools.

4. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Parsing and Evaluating Expressions](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/07/13/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-parsing-and-evaluating-expressions/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.2.0**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.2.0 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

In this post, I briefly describe the implementation of the code in Chapter 6: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/parsing-expressions.html" title="Parsing Expressions" target="_blank">Parsing Expressions</a>, and Chapter 7: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/evaluating-expressions.html" title="Evaluating Expressions" target="_blank">Evaluating Expressions</a>.

5. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Global Variables, Assignment, and Scope](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/07/22/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-global-variables-assignment-and-scope/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.3.0**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.3.0 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

I have completed Chapter 8: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/statements-and-state.html" title="Statements and State" target="_blank">Statements and State</a>. The following additional statements and expressions have been implemented: <code>Stmt::Expression</code>, <code>Stmt::Print</code>, <code>Stmt::Var</code>, <code>Expr::Variable</code>, <code>Expr::Assign</code> and <code>Stmt::Block</code>. We can now declare global variables, define scoped variables, and assign values to variables. This post discusses some implementation issues that deserve attention.

6. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Control Flow](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/07/25/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-control-flow/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.4.0**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.4.0 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

This is Chapter 8: <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/control-flow.html" title="Control Flow" target="_blank">Control Flow</a>. The following additional statements and expressions have been implemented: <code>Stmt::If</code>, <code>Expr::Logical</code>, and <code>Stmt::While</code>. Lox now supports <code>if</code>, <code>else</code>, <code>and</code>, <code>or</code>, <code>while</code>, and <code>for</code>. Despite this long list of new features, the implementation remains fairly straightforward.

7. [rlox: A Rust Implementation of “Crafting Interpreters” – Functions](https://behainguyen.wordpress.com/2025/08/01/rlox-a-rust-implementation-of-crafting-interpreters-functions/)

The code version for the above post has been tagged with **v0.5.0**. It can be cloned with:
  
```
git clone -b v0.5.0 https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox.git
```

This post covers Chapter 10 of <a href="https://craftinginterpreters.com/functions.html" title="Functions" target="_blank">Crafting Interpreters</a>: <strong>Functions</strong>. The following new syntax elements have been implemented: <code>Expr::Call</code>, <code>Stmt::Function</code>, and <code>Stmt::Return</code>. Lox now supports <code>fun</code>, <code>return</code>, and <code>closures</code>. This post discusses several implementation details that deserve attention.

## License
[MIT license](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)
and the [Creative Commons](  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
