tests/data/variable/README.md, before:

<!--
Date Created: 15/07/2025.
-->

**Please note:**

Scripts are from 
[ https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/tree/master/test/variable ](https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/tree/master/test/variable).

- `use_false_as_var.lox`, `use_nil_as_var.lox`, and `use_this_as_var.lox`: Used in [tests/test_parser.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_parser.rs)

- `redeclare_global.lox`, `redefine_global.lox`, `undefined_global.lox`, `uninitialized.lox`, `use_global_in_initializer.lox`, `in_middle_of_block.lox`, `in_nested_block.lox`, `scope_reuse_in_different_blocks.lox`, `shadow_and_local.lox`, `shadow_global.lox`, `shadow_local.lox`, and `undefined_local.lox`: Used in [tests/test_statements_state.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_statements_state.rs) 

- `unreached_undefined.lox`: Used in [tests/test_control_flow.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_control_flow.rs)

- **The rest**: Are not used yet.

Commit message:

Chapter 11: Resolving and Binding
No new Expr/Stmt implemented
- More scripts added
- Scripts moved to tests/test_resolving_and_binding.rs

tests/data/variable/README.md, after:

<!--
Date Created: 15/07/2025.
-->

**Please note:**

Scripts are from 
[ https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/tree/master/test/variable ](https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/tree/master/test/variable).

- `use_false_as_var.lox`, `use_nil_as_var.lox`, and `use_this_as_var.lox`: Used in [tests/test_parser.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_parser.rs)

- `redeclare_global.lox`, `redefine_global.lox`, `undefined_global.lox`, `uninitialized.lox`, `use_global_in_initializer.lox`, and `undefined_local.lox`: Used in [tests/test_statements_state.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_statements_state.rs) 

- `unreached_undefined.lox`: Used in [tests/test_control_flow.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_control_flow.rs)

- `collide_with_parameter.lox`, `duplicate_local.lox`, `duplicate_parameter.lox`, and `use_local_in_initializer.lox`: Used in [tests/test_resolving_and_binding.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_resolving_and_binding.rs)

- `in_middle_of_block.lox`, `in_nested_block.lox`, `scope_reuse_in_different_blocks.lox`, `shadow_and_local.lox`, `shadow_global.lox`, and `shadow_local.lox`: Used in [tests/test_resolving_and_binding.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_resolving_and_binding.rs)

- **The rest**: Are not used yet.
