tests/data/operator/README.md, before:

<!--
Date Created: 17/07/2025.
-->

**Please note:**

Scripts are from 
[ https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/tree/master/test/operator ](https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/tree/master/test/operator).

- `add_bool_nil.lox`, `add_bool_num.lox`, `add_bool_string.lox`, `add_nil_nil.lox`, `add_num_nil.lox`, `add_string_nil.lox`, `divide_nonnum_num.lox`, `divide_num_nonnum.lox`, `greater_nonnum_num.lox`, `greater_num_nonnum.lox`, `greater_or_equal_nonnum_num.lox`, `greater_or_equal_num_nonnum.lox`, `less_nonnum_num.lox`, `less_num_nonnum.lox`, `less_or_equal_nonnum_num.lox`, `less_or_equal_num_nonnum.lox`, `multiply_nonnum_num.lox`, `multiply_num_nonnum.lox`, `negate_nonnum.lox`, `subtract_nonnum_num.lox`, and `subtract_num_nonnum.lox`: Used in [tests/test_interpreter.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_interpreter.rs)

- `add.lox`, `comparison.lox`, `divide.lox`, `equals.lox`, `multiply.lox`, `negate.lox`, `not_equals.lox`, and `subtract.lox`: Used in [tests/test_statements_state.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_statements_state.rs) 

- `equals_class.lox`, `equals_method.lox`, `not.lox`, and `not_class.lox`: Are not yet used.

Commit message:

Functions: native and declared functions, return and closure
Implement Expr::Call, Stmt::Function and Stmt::Return
Some more scripts were added.

tests/data/operator/README.md, after:

<!--
Date Created: 17/07/2025.
-->

**Please note:**

Scripts are from 
[ https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/tree/master/test/operator ](https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/tree/master/test/operator).

- `add_bool_nil.lox`, `add_bool_num.lox`, `add_bool_string.lox`, `add_nil_nil.lox`, `add_num_nil.lox`, `add_string_nil.lox`, `divide_nonnum_num.lox`, `divide_num_nonnum.lox`, `greater_nonnum_num.lox`, `greater_num_nonnum.lox`, `greater_or_equal_nonnum_num.lox`, `greater_or_equal_num_nonnum.lox`, `less_nonnum_num.lox`, `less_num_nonnum.lox`, `less_or_equal_nonnum_num.lox`, `less_or_equal_num_nonnum.lox`, `multiply_nonnum_num.lox`, `multiply_num_nonnum.lox`, `negate_nonnum.lox`, `subtract_nonnum_num.lox`, and `subtract_num_nonnum.lox`: Used in [tests/test_interpreter.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_interpreter.rs)

- `add.lox`, `comparison.lox`, `divide.lox`, `equals.lox`, `multiply.lox`, `negate.lox`, `not_equals.lox`, and `subtract.lox`: Used in [tests/test_statements_state.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_statements_state.rs) 

- `not.lox`: Used in [tests/test_functions.rs](https://github.com/behai-nguyen/rlox/blob/main/tests/test_functions.rs)

- `equals_class.lox`, `equals_method.lox`, `not.lox`, and `not_class.lox`: Are not yet used.
